Guide (#1)
hazelcast-guides/kubernetes: doc/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc

:github-address: https://github.com/hazelcast-guides/kubernetes
:templates-url: templates:ROOT:page$/
:hazelcast: Hazelcast IMDG
:framework: Kubernetes

= Hazelcast for Kubernetes

This sample is a guideline on how to start Hazelcast cluster on the Kubernetes environment.

include::{templates-url}/link-to-repo.adoc[]

== What You’ll Learn

In this guide you will deploy Hazelcast cluster to Kubernetes.

== Prerequisites

1. Up and running https://kubernetes.io/[Kubernetes] version 1.9 or higher.
* For development and testing, you may use https://github.com/kubernetes/minikube[Minikube]
* You must have the Kubernetes command line tool, https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/[kubectl], installed
2. Another important note would be that this document assumes some familiarity with `kubectl`, Kubernetes, and Docker.

== Deployment Steps

=== Creating Role Binding

> Hazelcast uses Kubernetes API to discover nodes and that is why you need to grant certain permissions. The simplest Role Binding file can look as `rbac.yaml`. Note that you can make it more specific, since Hazelcast actually uses only certain API endpoints. Note also that if you use "DNS Lookup Discovery" instead of "REST API Discovery", then you can skip the Role Binding step at all. Read more at https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-kubernetes[Hazelcast Kubernetes API Plugin].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Hazelcast uses Kubernetes API to discover nodes and that is why you need to grant certain permissions. The simplest Role Binding file looks like `rbac.yaml`. Note that you can make it more specific, since Hazelcast actually uses only certain API endpoints. Note also that if you use "DNS Lookup Discovery" instead of "REST API Discovery", then you can skip the Role Binding step at all. Read more at https://github.com/hazelcast/hazelcast-kubernetes[Hazelcast Kubernetes API Plugin].
```

Once you have created a volume, copy your custom Hazelcast JARs into the root volume directory and add it into the `CLASSPATH` environment variable.

In the following example a GCE Persistent Disk named "my-hz-disk" has been already created and populated with the custom configuration.

Open a text editor and add the following deployment YAML for persistent volume:

[source, yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: PersistentVolume
metadata:
  name: hz-pv
spec:
  capacity:
    storage: 10Gi
  storageClassName: standard
  accessModes:
    - ReadWriteOnce
    - ReadOnlyMany
  persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy: Retain
  gcePersistentDisk:
    pdName: my-hz-disk
    fsType: ext4
----

Save this file as `hz-pv.yaml`. Please also notice that `Reclaim Policy` is set as `Retain`. Therefore, contents of this folder will remain as is, between successive `claims`.

Create the persistent volume:

[source, shell]
----
$ kubectl apply -f hz-pv.yaml
----

Please note that contents of your previous deployment is preserved. If you change the claim policy to `RECYCLE`, you have to transfer all custom files to `<your-pv-path>` before each successive deployments.

> Now edit `hazelcast.yaml`, and a PersistentVolumeClaim definition to match the above PersistentVolume. Finally, set the `CLASSPATH` env variable to a valid path and add a corresponding `volumeMount` in the `StatefulSet`.

Reviewer: Isn't another `kubectl apply -f hazelcast.yaml` needed to apply changes? Or have you just ignored it in this section of the guide?

Author: Yeap, it's needed. Updated the guide

== Summary

> This guide shows the basic setup for Hazelcast cluster for Kubernetes. For more advanced configurations check other guides.

Reviewer: How about this:
```suggestion
This guide shows the basic setup for Hazelcast cluster for Kubernetes. You can find more advanced configurations in other Kubernetes guides.

== See Also
- xref:kubernetes-hpa:ROOT:index.adoc[Kubernetes HPA for Hazelcast cluster]
- xref:kubernetes-external-client:ROOT:index.adoc[External Hazelcast Client on Kubernetes]
- xref:kubernetes-sidecar:ROOT:index.adoc[Hazelcast as Sidecar container]
```
